Page 1 - They can work hard
Villagers always try to cultivate something around their home. Most of them are self-sufficient from their foods. They cultivate plants only using compost and without any chemicals. They do not need to keep prepared food in refrigerators for a long time. Because when they want them, they can go to their home garden and pick fresh food and can cook. They always use fresh food. That is the reason for a healthy, long life. And also they do not use machines always to make their work easy. Most probably villagers use primitive tools. That is a better exercise for the body. Here I have added a picture of a paddy field. Now it is ready for harvest.
The villagers are very supportive of each other. The family members, friends, and relations gather to the field and harvest like this. They do not need many machines because they have a lot of manpower and primitive tools. They work together like this and share everything.

Page 2 - Better Things With Reasonable Prices
Local Sri Lankans are very innocent. They want to sell their crops to others. Small and temporary stalls built aside the road so travelers on the road can easy to see the things inside the stall. The villagers come out from their village towards the city areas to sell their crops. There are a lot of fruits, vegetables, various kinds of grains available on the stalls. Some fruits grow only in a special season.
Not only rice, but they also have a lot of things. They always ready to supply you with things that you request.

Page 3 - Self-employment a longing on coastal line
Sri Lanka is a small land, which is surrounding by the sea. Actually it is an island in Indian Ocean. The person who lives in coastal line are doing some jobs relate with fishing. The dried fish is well delicious curry in Sri Lanka. The dried fish is full of protein.
Various kinds of dried fish available.
Catch the fish using mega net. A boat out at the sea with guiding the net.
Surrounded land like this.
They are resting.
You can choose for your budget.

Page 4 - The place for the starting of the day
The places in the coastal line are very calmful and beautiful in the evenings and mornings. Some people like to start their day from places like these and also some people like to end their day on the places in the coastal line.

Page 5 - The tea lands
In Sri Lanka, the main commercial cultivations are tea, rubber, and coconut. Tea is categorized into three types. Those are,
		* High grown tea
		* Mid country
		* Low grown tea 
The categorization depends on the hight of locations of tea land which is measured considering the sea level. Tea grown on the lands which are locating above 1200m above the sea level are called “High Grown Tea”. The best example is Nuwara Eliya. That is 1892m above sea level. Because of the cold climate in this area known as LITTLE ENGLAND.
The tea lands are located between 1200m and 600m above sea level. That is mid-country. 
The tea land located above 600m from the sea level called as low grown tea.

Page 6 - Low grown **
Considering the culture, the family is very important. In the ancient family, there were a huge number of kids. Today it cannot be seen. It is limited up to two or three kids. At that time mother was the main character of the family. The family was built around the mother. She never did a job like today. Her main responsibility was feeding and taking care of the kids. Especially with a calm mind child. The responsibility on the mother's hand to build a thank full society did a big task. But that did not succeed without support from the father to earn money.
Look at this picture,
Actually this is a tea land in low country (low grown tea).This is a family employment. Most of the tea lands in low country are smaller, not like up country. But it is not without bigger lands.
Look at them, no any instrument on their hand, to pluck the tea. They use only their nails; nails are full of tanning, in brown color. Normally 18kg of leaves should be collected per the day the people who works as laborer in tea estate. Most of the tea plucker on tea estates is female. Normally they start early in the morning and stopped at about 1-1.30 p.m.

Page 7 - Blessing the land
Actually, Sri Lanka is a smaller land with considering some other countries. Which has an area of 25,333 sq mi and population approximately twenty-five million. Most of the people are following their own religions. The majority is Buddhist. Others are Christians, Muslims, and Hindus. It can be seen in some places where Buddhist temples and Catholic Church are locating in the same place. But no any conflicts. Do you believe it? Because of some invasions of south Indian, step by step Hindu religion came into Buddhism. That is why today you can see some shine rooms are allocated for some Hindu gods in Buddhist temples those are known Vishnu, Paththini, Skanda, etc. Every ethnic gather to help each other when religious function happens regarding any religion. That is trusted by the people, the land full of blessings of Lord Buddha, Skanda, Jesus and Allah. That is why this paradise called religious land.
The church and temple in same premises,
Lot Of statues like this can be seen in coastal line. Jesus is blessing every one forever.
LANKATHILAKA Pagoda in the first capital of Sri Lanka, Anuradhapura.
 Statue of Lord Buddha,
 Meditation position,
 The Samadhi statue in Anuradhapura Sri Lanka.
A bigger colorful Hindu Temple in Matale,
Shrining room of god Skandawhich is inside of the Buddhist temple premises in Kande Vihare, Western province

Page 8 - Ayubowan 
Welcome all of you, who visits my site, it is wanted to give you better and different experience during your vacation on Sri Lanka. Ayubowan is our welcome word. That is one of the splendid words in our language Sinhala, it is made by two words AYU and BOWAN, AYU is meant to age, BOHOWAN means, blessing you to expand the lifetime, actually that is a word which is blessing you a happy, healthy, wealthy long life.
So most of the visitors have been normally in common and famous places which are in Sri Lanka, like Sigiriya, Dambulla, Anuradhapura, Ella, Temple of the Tooth relic in Kandy, Botanical gardens, etc… But they don’t know the beauty that is hidden in villages and rural areas. The beauty of the village is enhanced by the traditional culture. About the traditional family and culture will be caught during the visit to my site.
The places are mentioned above, are most tourists attracted, visiting them very interesting and very important. But I want to invite you to visit and study our traditional culture in village. Actually, in the city area, you can see a mixture of modern and traditional cultures. But pure traditional culture still remains inside of a village.
The Buddhist normally homage to Buddhist temple. Most of the Tamil people homage on Hindu temple, the mosque is used by the Muslims, the Catholic Church is used by Christians.
As per legendary Sri Lanka is a Sinhalese Buddhist country. But all religious people live together in this land peacefully. So Sri Lanka is a multi-religious, multi-ethnic country.
The village is built arround the temple, associated with lake and Pagoda. The paddy field enhances the significance because staple food is rice and curry. This union is the symbol of prosperity. The Pagoda is the symbol of Buddhism. It is very meaningful not only religiously, but also scientifically. Because of its shape and pinnacle can break the bond of Nitrogen (N) of made nitrate when the lightning. Nitrate mixed with rainwater flows down on the body and save water into the lake. At dry time farmers use this water to cultivate fields.

Page 9 - The village
The village is the unit that enriches with the most important, beautiful, and things. That is filled full of nature, the people who live there full of gratitude. Their life is very simple, Important thing is they want to produce their food themselves, that is why they are working hard, the additional food which they produced, is released to outside to sell or exchange with others. Most of the villagers are relations, their lands are transferred to generation to generation.
They are very innocent, humble. They have good hospitality. Most of these attitudes are still remain in the village, still, they are following traditional customs and rituals they respect others even flora and fauna. This is the reason the village is full of green, their habit will be explained onward.
This is an access to the traditional village through the green canopy. With a gravel road.
This is a small stream that is an ideal place to bathe and wash.
It should be traveled over these bridges to access the village.
Hamlet is the plenty flower on stream likes this.
		* Look at this roofing pattern and walling pattern.
		* Weaved coconut twigs are used for cover the roof.
		* A pulp (clay) that is made the soil mixed with water is used for built the walls.
- TRADITIONAL COOKING SYSTEM IN THE VILLAGE -
Considering the traditional cooking system the spices are taken a very special place. Ginger, Pepper, Turmeric, Cinnamon, Chilly, Curry powder, etc… are very very special. Actually the spice is mentioned above are used as well as popular medicines. Normally they are planted in their home garden to use in an emergency.
The earthenware, firewood, and hearth are taken in a very special place when they are cooking. The kitchen is already built especially for that. The importance is the villagers can collect many of these free of charge.
TERMERIC	GINGER

Page 10 - Rubber in Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka Rubber plantations mainly consist of small plantation holders as well as bigger plantation holders that are managed by some companies in private sectors, but it is not without rubber estates those are belonging to the government. Actually small plantation holders are mainly remaining in the village. Some of the small plantations are maintained by family members, like a self-employment. Expecting bigger profits, some companies started to reveal the rubber and replanted the oil palm trees, That is rapidly destroys the beauty of environment as well as decreased the under water level, because of this planting, it was recognized by the government with considering the reports of some investigations that was provided by some societies, and it was taken an prompt actions to limit the replanting of oil palms.
RUBBER PLANTATIONS in the Western province of Sri Lanka
They are tapping the rubber.
Rubber juice is flowing in to the containers like this.
He is collecting liquid in to the bigger containers. After the few hours of tapping rubber.
One of the Oil Palm estates locates on the western province of Sri Lanka.

Page 11 - Animal husbandary
This is a most common scenery can be seen in the evening and morning time. Most of the villages sufficient of milk because of the farmers like these. The small cowsheds available at least five or six families inside the village. Normally farmers release or tie their cows to the nearest bare land to feed them, again in the evening important for driven them to shed. Cow dung is very very the farmers to their cultivation as manure. Additional milk, they collected in the morning, sell to outside and rest is used for other milk products like curd & cheese.

Page 12 - Purpose of the website
The purpose of this website to explain the hidden beauty of Sri Lanka which enriches with our traditions and culture, It is wanted to invite you to visit and study the inside of the village while having visit on other important and famous site those speeded over the beautiful island Sri Lanka surrounded by Indian ocean.
We want to offer you a tour plan commensurable with your budget and requirement. Please be informed us which kind of the places that you want to visit, What are the activities that you are interesting to enjoy and which kind of sceneries you want to see.
Beautiful scenery on a tea plantation in Nuwara-eliya
A family of elephant in out at the public park in Udawalawa